:book: docs: rework the Terminology document (#3238)
kcp-dev/kcp: docs/content/concepts/terminology.md

---
description: >
  The Terminology document contains definitions used throughout the kcp project. We strongly recommend familiarizing
  yourself with this terminology before proceeding. Note that some terms might get changed in the future, and that
  will be covered by respective design documents.
---

# Terminology

This document contains definitions used throughout the kcp project. We strongly recommend familiarizing yourself with
this terminology before proceeding. Note that some terms might get changed in the future, and that will be covered by
respective design documents.

## Logical Cluster

A logical cluster is a way to subdivide a single `kube-apiserver` instance and `etcd` datastore into multiple

> clusters (different APIs, separate semantics for access, policy, and control) without requiring multiple instances.

Reviewer: nit: this was a little misleading before already: technically it is not kube-apiserver, but a kube-like apiserver.

A logical cluster is a mechanism for achieving separation, but may be modelled differently in different use cases.
A logical cluster is able to amortize the cost of a new cluster to be near-zero memory and storage, so that we can
create a huge number of empty clusters cheaply.

A logical cluster is a storage level concept that adds an additional attribute to an object’s identifier in etcd
and kube-apiserver. Regular API servers identify objects by (group, version, resource, optional namespace, name).
A logical cluster enriches an identifier with its name:
(group, version, resource, **logical cluster name**, optional namespace, name).

## Workspace

A workspace provides Kubernetes-cluster-like HTTPS/CRUD endpoints, i.e., endpoints that typical Kubernetes client
tooling (e.g., client-go, controller-runtime, and others) can interact with as they would with classic Kubernetes

> clusters. Workspace provides multi-tenancy in a kcp setup.

Reviewer: This is not correct now, it was before, just maybe misplaced. I would move what you wrote here nearly 1:1 to logical clusters:
```
For each logical cluster, kcp provides  Kubernetes-cluster-like HTTPS/CRUD endpoints, i.e., endpoints that typical Kubernetes client
tooling (e.g., client-go, controller-runtime, and others) can interact with as they would with classic Kubernetes
clusters.
```

Author: I kind of copied that from this page: https://docs.kcp.io/kcp/v0.26/concepts/workspaces/

Is that page also incorrect or is my interpretation of it wrong? My understanding is that logical clusters are inaccessible on their own, i.e. that they're only a storage-level concept, but that you need something on top of them (i.e. Workspaces) to get access to them?

Based on this, does it mean that you can create logical clusters that are exposed without a Workspace?

Author: Also relevant: https://github.com/kcp-dev/kcp/pull/3238#discussion_r1898595485

Reviewer: you can access logical clusters directly, if you know their name. Long ago, we need RBAC to give access to the logical cluster from the parent. At that time we needed the workspace. This is not the case anymore.

> Each workspace is backed by a logical cluster, but not all logical clusters may be exposed as workspaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each workspace is backed by a logical cluster, but not all logical clusters originate from workspaces.
```

There could be multiple different models that result in logical clusters being created, with different policies or
lifecycle, but Workspace is intended to be the most generic representation of the concept with the broadest possible
utility to anyone building control planes.

A workspace can be used to:

- export APIs, making them bindable inside different workspaces and logical clusters
- bind APIs, i.e. "install" APIs from different workspaces and logical clusters into the current workspace and logical
  cluster
- allocate capacity for creating instances of those APIs (quota)

Additionally, a workspace defines how multi-workspace operations can be performed by users, clients, and controller
integrations.

To a user, a workspace appears to be a Kubernetes cluster without all the container orchestration specific resources.
(e.g. Pods, ReplicaSets, Deployments...). It has its own discovery, its own OpenAPI spec, and follows the
Kubernetes-like constraints about uniqueness of Group-Version-Resource and its behavior. For example, it's not
possible to have two identical GVRs with different schemas in one workspace, but it's possible to have two identical

> GVRs with different schemas in different workspaces.

Reviewer: Wondering whether it is confusing that we describe all this for workspaces. It applies to logical clusters as well.

Author: To be very honest, I struggled with logical cluster vs workspaces in the very beginning, but it might be that I still struggle a little. I agree that this applies to logical clusters as well. A lot of stuff under workspaces and exporting/binding applies to both.

Based on some other comments and my current understanding, I'd describe Workspace as a way to create logical cluster with a predefined set of available APIs. In other words, it's an abstraction on top of logical clusters that's going to properly bootstrap and prepare a logical cluster for the use case that you want.

What I still don't understand is the point about CRUD endpoints. If that's what I get just with a logical cluster (which is my understanding of https://github.com/kcp-dev/kcp/pull/3238#discussion_r1898576991), what endpoints are actually provided by a Workspace?

Reviewer: > Based on some other comments and my current understanding, I'd describe Workspace as a way to create logical cluster with a predefined set of available APIs. In other words, it's an abstraction on top of logical clusters that's going to properly bootstrap and prepare a logical cluster for the use case that you want.

100% this. And they keep everything alive. When you delete the workspace, the logical cluster goes away (through finalizer on the workspace). But you can create logical clusters that have no parent at all. The "root" workspace is one of them. But there can be many.

Reviewer: > What I still don't understand is the point about CRUD endpoints. If that's what I get just with a logical cluster (which is my understanding of https://github.com/kcp-dev/kcp/pull/3238#discussion_r1898576991), what endpoints are actually provided by a Workspace?

You can talk to a logical cluster via its name, or alternatively through the workspace hierarchy path. In that sense, the workspace adds more CRUD endpoints, but I would rather call them aliases of those already existing from the logical cluster.

E.g. you can talk to a workspace through
1. `/clusters/2323kjklj234lk` – the logical cluster name
2. `/clusters/root:foo:bar` – the workspace path.
Both endpoints give you the same result.

means that an API object is stored in one workspace/logical cluster. However, a use case that arises is how can someone
view API objects across different workspaces in a "single pane of glass" fashion. Concretely:

- the user may have access to different workspaces: a workspace that belongs to the user personally, or one that
  belongs to a business organization. User might want to list and manage their API objects from all workspaces in a
  single call (e.g. single `kubectl get` invocation),
- Service Provider might want to get a list of all instances (from all users) of the API resource they provide, so that
  they can do reconciliation, have insights into how their API is used, and more.

More information, including concrete examples and a list of frequently asked questions, can be found in the
[Virtual Workspaces document](../workspaces/virtual-workspaces/).

## Exporting/Binding APIs

One of the core values of the kcp project is to enable providing APIs that can be consumed by multiple workspaces.
This is done via exporting/binding mechanism, i.e. via API Exports and API Bindings.

The general workflow is:

> - Define your API resources similar to how you would define CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Define your API resources through APIResourceSchemes, very similar to how you would define CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs)
```

Author: I actually had it exactly like that and decided to remove before pushing as I wasn't sure if it's too much for this document. 🙈 😅 I'll put it back in place like proposed.

- Create an API Export (in the same workspace) with a list of API resources that you want to export
- User can create an API Binding in their workspaces referring to your API Export. This will result in API resources
  that are defined in the referenced API Export to be installed in user's workspace
- User can now create API resources of those types in their workspace. You can build and run controllers that are going
  to reconcile those resources across different workspaces.

The Workspace model defines one particular implementation of the lifecycle of a logical cluster and the APIs within it.
Because APIs and the implementations that back an API evolve over time, it is important that the binding be
introspectable and orchestrate-able - that a consumer can provide a rolling deployment of a new API or new
implementation across hundreds or thousands of workspaces. The evolution of an API within a workspace and across

> workspaces is of key importance.

Reviewer: this paragraph is half a vision than what we have implemented actually.

Author: I know, and I was torn on deleting it, but I mostly didn't because I wasn't sure if that would be okay. I'd propose that we either delete it, or put it a note block and say our vision for this is to allow ... (what's written there). Which one do you prefer?

IMO, because this is supposed to be an entry-level document, I'd keep vision out from it, and focus only on what we already have. Maybe we can put it in some other document, I think it's already preset somewhere.

## Shard

A failure domain within the larger control plane service that cuts across the primary functionality. Most distributed
systems must separate functionality across shards to mitigate failures, and typically users interact with shards
through some transparent serving infrastructure. Since the primary problem of building distributed systems is reasoning
about failure domains and dependencies across them, it is critical to allow operators to effectively match shards,
understand dependencies, and bring them together.

A control plane should be shardable in a way that maximizes application SLO - gives users a tool that allows them to
better define their applications not to fail.

> ## Index (e.g. Workspace Index)

Reviewer: this thing is actually gone from kcp core.

Author: And it'll be gone from the document once I push some more fixes. :D

---

# Terminology

This document contains definitions used throughout the kcp project. We strongly recommend familiarizing yourself with
this terminology before proceeding.

!!! note
    Some terms might get changed as the project develops. This document will be kept up to date with all relevant
    changes, while additional details and history of changes will be covered by respective design documents.

## `kcp` server

kcp server is a Kubernetes-like API server. It extends the Kubernetes API server to provide multi-tenancy and
capabilities for building platforms on top of it. The kcp server can be subdivided into multiple "logical clusters"
where different logical clusters can be used by different users in the organization.

The kcp server only provides resources to accomplish this, such as `LogicalCluster`, `Workspace`, `APIBinding` and
`APIExport`, on top of some core Kubernetes resources, like `ConfigMap` and `Secret`. It doesn't provide Kubernetes
resources for managing and orchestrating workloads, such as Pods and Deployments. The list of resources provided by
default can be found in the [Built-in APIs document](./apis/built-in).

> kcp follows the Kubernetes API semantics, and all users are required to adhere to these semantics. In other words,
> if you're building a platform on top of kcp, you'll be required to build Kubernetes-like resources and APIs, think of
> CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs) and controllers. The difference is that in some cases you might have to use a
> kcp-specific resources instead of regular Kubernetes resources to accomplish something. For example, to define your
> own resource that can be used across different logical clusters, you'll have to use `APIResourceSchema` resource
> instead of `CustomResourceDefinition`.

Reviewer: This reads a little strange. We don't force users.

```suggestion
kcp follows the Kubernetes API semantics in each logical cluster, i.e. kcp should be conformant to the subset of the Kubernetes conformance suite that applies to the APIs available in kcp. In other words, if you're building a platform on top of kcp, you'll be required to build Kubernetes-like resources and APIs, think of
CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs) and controllers. The difference is that in some cases you might have to use a
kcp-specific resources instead of regular Kubernetes resources to accomplish something. For example, to define your
own resource that can be used across different logical clusters, you'll have to use `APIResourceSchema` resource
instead of `CustomResourceDefinition`.
```

as its datastore, so if you have experience with operating Kubernetes, you can very easily apply it to kcp.

At the end, the kcp server and all logical clusters created on top of it can be accessed using the regular Kubernetes
tooling such as kubectl and client-go.

!!! note
    The only exception to this are Kubernetes controllers. Regular Kubernetes controllers can work with a single
    (logical) cluster. However, if you're building a developer platform on top of kcp, you likely want your controller
    to reconcile objects across multiple logical clusters. At the moment, this is not supported by upstream Kubernetes
    controller-runtime. Instead you have to use
    [our fork of it](https://github.com/kcp-dev/controller-runtime/tree/kcp-0.19/examples/kcp).
    We're working with the upstream community on adding support for multi-cluster setups to the Kubernetes
    controller-runtime.

## Logical Cluster

A logical cluster is a way to subdivide a kcp server and its `etcd` datastore into multiple clusters without requiring
multiple API server and etcd instances. A logical cluster is able to amortize the cost of a new cluster to be near-zero

> memory and storage, so that we can create a huge number of empty clusters cheaply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
memory and storage (similar cost as a namespace), so that we can create a huge number of empty clusters cheaply.
```

Each logical cluster has it's own set of APIs installed, it's own objects, and different access semantics and
policies, i.e. RBAC rules. In other words, each logical cluster is isolated from other logical clusters.

This is accomplished by adding an additional attribute to an object's identifier in etcd and kcp server to associate

> object with its logical cluster. On the storage level, the regular Kubernetes API server identifies objects using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an object with its logical cluster. On the storage level, the regular Kubernetes API server identifies objects using
```

(group, version, resource, optional namespace, name). The kcp server enriches this identifier with logical cluster
name, so we have (group, version, resource, **logical cluster name**, optional namespace, name).

A logical cluster provides Kubernetes-cluster-like HTTPS/CRUD endpoints, i.e. endpoints that typical Kubernetes client
tooling (e.g. client-go, controller-runtime, and others) can interact with as they would with regular Kubernetes

> clusters. Using the appropriate kubeconfig file, a user can run `kubectl get all -A` to return all objects in all

Reviewer: nit: is all really all? :-) I believe in Kube it is not.

Author: It definitely isn't. What about something like this?

> a user can run `kubectl get foo -A` to return all objects of type `foo` across all namespaces in that concrete logical cluster.

namespaces in that concrete logical cluster.

> To a user, a logical cluster appears to be a Kubernetes cluster without all the container orchestration specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To a user, a logical cluster appears to be a Kubernetes cluster without any of the container orchestration specific
```

resources (e.g. Pods, ReplicaSets, Deployments...). It has its own discovery, its own OpenAPI spec, and follows the
Kubernetes-like constraints about uniqueness of Group-Version-Resource and its behavior. For example, it's not
possible to have two identical GVRs with different schemas in one logical cluster, but it's possible to have two
identical GVRs with different schemas in different logical clusters.

However, in the most of cases, you'll never create a logical cluster on its own. Instead, you would use an abstraction,
such as Workspace, to create logical cluster.

!!! note
    There could be multiple different models that result in logical clusters being created, with different policies or
    lifecycle, but Workspace is intended to be the most generic representation of the concept with the broadest possible

>     utility to anyone building control planes.

Reviewer: maybe a too strong statement. Not sure it is most generic. Would rather call it the canonical way.

Author: Is this any better?

> There could be multiple different models that result in logical clusters being created, with different policies or
    lifecycle. The Workspace is intended to be the most canonical way to create logical clusters for anyone willing
    to build control planes.

!!! note
    Throughout the documentation, terms "workspace" and "logical cluster" might be interchanged. In the most of cases,
    unless stated otherwise, what applies to a workspace applies to a logical cluster as well, because Workspaces are
    abstractions built on top of logical clusters.

## Workspace

Workspace is an abstraction used to create and provision logical clusters. Aside from creating the LogicalCluster
object, the responsibility of a Workspace is to initialize the given logical cluster by installing the required
resources for the given workspace type, creating initial objects, and more.

Workspaces are managed via the `Workspace` resource. It's a simple resource that mainly contains that workspace name,
type, and URL.

> Workspaces are organized in a multi-root tree structure. The root workspace is created by the kcp server by default

Reviewer: maybe mention the notation `root:foo:bar`?

Author: I came up with this:

> Workspace's full name is based on the hierarchy and the user provided name. For example, if you create a workspace called `bar` in a workspace called `foo` (which is a child of the root workspace), the full workspace names will be:
>
> - `root:foo` for the `foo` workspace
> - `root:foo:bar` for the `bar` workspace

However, aside that it should be checked for correctness, I'm wondering if `workspace's full name` is the term that we want to use.

Reviewer: workspace path

and it doesn't have its own `Workspace` object (it only has the appropriate `LogicalCluster` object). Each type of
workspace may restrict the types of its children and may restrict the types it may be a child of; a parent-child
relationship is allowed if and only if the parent allows the child and the child allows the parent.

More information, including examples, can be found in the the [Workspaces document](../workspaces).

### Workspace Types

Workspaces have types, which are mostly oriented around a set of default or optional APIs exposed. For example:

- a workspace intended for deploying applications might expose the same API objects a user would encounter on a
  physical cluster,
- a workspace intended for building Knative functions might expose only the Knative serving APIs, ConfigMaps, Secrets,
  and optionally enable Knative Eventing APIs.

By default, each workspace has [built-in APIs installed and available to its users](./apis/built-in).

More information, including a list of Workspace Types and examples, can be found in the
[Workspace Types document](../workspaces/workspace-types/).

### Virtual Workspace

> Virtual Workspaces are proxy-like API servers under a custom URL that provide a computed view of real Workspaces.

Author: I'm not sure I fully understand this. I'm not sure if this means that each Virtual Workspace is effectively an API server (that's my current understanding) or that there's a Virtual Workspace API server that provides access to different virtual workspaces. Also, in your example, what do we actually mean with `<virtual-logical-cluster>`?

> Virtual Workspaces are proxy-like API servers under a custom URL that provide a computed view of real Workspaces.

Reviewer: Technically the apiserver (both kcp and a virtual workspace apiserver) serve everything from `/` of `/clusters`. E.g. a virtual workspace apiserver could be available under `https://kcp/services/<virtual-workspace-identifier>/more/api/segements/`, and then under that you have the `clusters/....` hierarchy. Each `.../clusters/foo` is a virtual workspace or virtual logical cluster.

> Virtual Workspaces are proxy-like API servers under a custom URL that provide a computed view of real Workspaces.

Author: This is supposed to be addressed now.

workspaces are **not** read-only, they can also be used to modify resources (for more details see the document linked
below).

kcp provides a set of default virtual workspaces, but you can also build your own virtual workspaces. Virtual
Workspaces are implemented in the Go programming language using the appropriate kcp library
([`pkg/virtual/framework`](https://github.com/kcp-dev/kcp/tree/main/pkg/virtual/framework)), and then you run them
along with kcp.

More information, including concrete examples and a list of frequently asked questions, can be found in the
[Virtual Workspaces document](../workspaces/virtual-workspaces/).

## Exporting/Binding APIs

One of the core values of the kcp project is to enable providing APIs that can be consumed inside multiple logical
clusters. This is done via an exporting/binding mechanism, i.e. via API Exports and API Bindings.

The general workflow is:

- Define your API resources through `APIResourceSchemes` similar to how you would define CustomResourceDefinitions
  (CRDs)
- Create `APIExport` in the same workspace/logical cluster with a list of `APIResourceSchemes` that you want to export

> - User can create `APIBinding` in their workspaces referring to your `APIExport`. This will result in API resources that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users can create `APIBinding` in their workspaces referring to your `APIExport` (if you grant the permission). This will result in API resources that
```

  are defined in the referenced `APIExport` to be installed in the user's workspace

> - User can now create API resources of those types in their workspace. You can build and run controllers that are going

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users can now create API resources of those types in their workspace. You can build and run controllers that are going
```

  to reconcile those resources across different workspaces.

## Shard

A failure domain within the larger control plane service that cuts across the primary functionality. Most distributed
systems must separate functionality across shards to mitigate failures, and typically users interact with shards
through some transparent serving infrastructure. Since the primary problem of building distributed systems is reasoning
about failure domains and dependencies across them, it is critical to allow operators to effectively match shards,
understand dependencies, and bring them together.

A control plane should be shardable in a way that maximizes application SLO - gives users a tool that allows them to
better define their applications not to fail.

### Sharding in kcp

In the sense of kcp, sharding involves:

- running another kcp server instance with its own etcd datastore

> - registering that kcp instance with the root shard by creating a `Shard` object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- registering all kcp instances with the root shard by creating a `Shard` object in the root workspace.
```

A shard hosts its own set of Workspaces and logical clusters. The sharding mechanism in kcp allows you to bind APIs
from logical clusters running in other shards (although, this requires additional consideration so we strongly

> recommend reading the [Sharding documentation](./sharding/shards/)).

Author: This reads a little strange to me, what do you think about this:

> A shard hosts its own set of Workspaces and logical clusters. The sharding mechanism in kcp allows you to make the workspace hierarchy span many shards transparently, while ensuring you can bind APIs from logical clusters running in different shards. The [Sharding documentation](./sharding/shards/) has more details about possibilities of sharding, and we strongly recommend reading this document if you want to shard your kcp setup.

and it doesn't have its own `Workspace` object (it only has the appropriate `LogicalCluster` object). Each type of
workspace may restrict the types of its children and may restrict the types it may be a child of; a parent-child
relationship is allowed if and only if the parent allows the child and the child allows the parent.

More information, including examples, can be found in the the [Workspaces document](../workspaces).

### Workspace Types

Workspaces have types, which are mostly oriented around a set of default or optional APIs exposed. For example:

- a workspace intended for deploying applications might expose the same API objects a user would encounter on a
  physical cluster,
- a workspace intended for building Knative functions might expose only the Knative serving APIs, ConfigMaps, Secrets,
  and optionally enable Knative Eventing APIs.

By default, each workspace has [built-in APIs installed and available to its users](./apis/built-in).

More information, including a list of Workspace Types and examples, can be found in the
[Workspace Types document](../workspaces/workspace-types/).

### Virtual Workspace

> Virtual Workspaces are proxy-like API servers under a custom URL that provide a computed view of real Workspaces.

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence (from further down, which is currently being deleted) should be added here:

```suggestion
Virtual Workspaces are proxy-like API servers under a custom URL that provide a computed view of real Workspaces.
Those workspaces are “virtual” because they adapt or transform the underlying source of truth for the
object and potentially the schema the user sees.
```

That means that Virtual Workspaces provide Kubernetes-cluster-like HTTPs endpoints, just like classic Workspaces,
so you can use the typical Kubernetes client tooling to interact with Virtual Workspaces.

An API object has one source of truth, i.e. it's transactional stored in one system. In the context of kcp, this
means that an API object is stored in one logical cluster. However, a use case that arises is how can someone
view API objects across different workspaces in a "single pane of glass" fashion. Concretely:

- the user may have access to different workspaces: a workspace that belongs to the user personally, or one that

>   belongs to a business organization. User might want to list and manage their API objects from all workspaces in a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  belongs to a business organization. The user might want to list and manage their API objects from all workspaces in a
```

  single call (e.g. single `kubectl get` invocation),

> - Service Provider might want to get a list of all instances (from all users) of the API resource they provide, so that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a service provider might want to get a list of all instances (from all users) of the API resource they provide, so that
```

  they can do reconciliation, have insights into how their API is used, and more.

Virtual Workspaces are limited in terms of what they can see, they can usually see only selected resources (e.g.
resources owned by that use or resources provided by a given service provider). It's important to note that virtual
workspaces are **not** read-only, they can also be used to modify resources (for more details see the document linked
below).

kcp provides a set of default Virtual Workspaces, but you can also build your own virtual workspaces. Virtual

> workspaces are implemented in Go language using the appropriate kcp library, and then you run them along with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
workspaces are implemented in the Go programming language using the appropriate kcp library ([pkg/virtual/framework](https://github.com/kcp-dev/kcp/tree/main/pkg/virtual/framework)), and then you run them along with
```

kcp.

More information, including concrete examples and a list of frequently asked questions, can be found in the
[Virtual Workspaces document](../workspaces/virtual-workspaces/).

## Exporting/Binding APIs

One of the core values of the kcp project is to enable providing APIs that can be consumed inside multiple logical

> clusters. This is done via exporting/binding mechanism, i.e. via API Exports and API Bindings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
clusters. This is done via an exporting/binding mechanism, i.e. via API Exports and API Bindings.
```

- a workspace intended for building Knative functions might expose only the Knative serving APIs, ConfigMaps, Secrets,
  and optionally enable Knative Eventing APIs.

By default, each workspace has the [built-in APIs installed and available to its users](./apis/built-in).

More information, including a list of Workspace Types and examples, can be found in the
[Workspace Types document](../workspaces/workspace-types/).

> ## Virtual Workspace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Virtual Workspaces
```

> A Virtual Workspace API server is a Kubernetes-like API server under a custom URL that's serving Virtual Workspaces and
> Virtual Logical Clusters. This API server is very similar to the kcp server and they share the access semantics
> (in terms of the URL paths and the permission model).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Virtual Workspace API server is a Kubernetes-like API server under a custom URL that's serving Virtual Workspaces or more precisely Virtual Logical Clusters. This API surface looks very similar to the kcp server itself sharing the same API path structure.
```

> A Virtual Workspace API server is a Kubernetes-like API server under a custom URL that's serving Virtual Workspaces and
> Virtual Logical Clusters. This API server is very similar to the kcp server and they share the access semantics
> (in terms of the URL paths and the permission model).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Virtual Workspace API server is a Kubernetes-like API server under a custom URL that's serving Virtual Workspaces or more precisely Virtual Logical Clusters. The API surface looks very similar to the kcp server itself sharing the same http path structure, with each (virtual) logical cluster having its own HTTP endpoints under `clusters/<logical cluster>`.
```

> That API server provides Virtual Workspaces as a set of HTTP/CRUD endpoints that follow the same semantics as the real
> Workspaces, but that can serve any data (as decided by the virtual workspace developer) in a similar way as the real
> Workspaces serve resources and objects. The term Virtual Logical Cluster has the same meaning, but it's used in a
> context when the data that's served is the data that's coming from the real logical cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Virtual Workspace API server is a Kubernetes-like API server under a custom URL that's serving Virtual Workspaces or more precisely Virtual Logical Clusters. This API surface looks very similar to the kcp server itself sharing the same API path structure.
```
